Replace central server by user interface or SaaS platform (#3909)
centreon/centreon-documentation: cloud/getting-started/architecture.md

title: Architecture of Centreon Cloud
---

> Centreon Cloud consists mainly of a user interface provided by Centreon, and pollers that you install in your infrastructure. In addition, the Centreon [CIAM](../ciam/ciam.md) module allows you to manage organizations and users, and to log in to Centreon Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
Centreon Cloud consists mainly of a SaaS platform provided by Centreon, and pollers that you install in your infrastructure. In addition, the Centreon [CIAM](../ciam/ciam.md) module allows you to manage organizations and users, and to log in to Centreon Cloud.
```

![image](../assets/getting-started/infra3.png)

## SaaS platform

* The SaaS platform is provided to you by Centreon, ready to use.
* The SaaS platform does not monitor resources in your infrastructure (the pollers do).
* The SaaS platform has a [user interface](interface.md), in which you can see the resources monitored by all pollers.
* You can reach the user interface from anywhere, using a web browser, at `<organization>.<region>.centreon.cloud`.
* The SaaS platform is hosted in the cloud.

> * Centreon installs and upgrades SaaS platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Centreon installs and upgrades your SaaS platform.
```

## One or more pollers

* Pollers monitor resources in your infrastructure. They should be in the same network as the resources they will monitor.

> * Pollers do not have a user interface (you see the pollers' activity on the user interface).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pollers do not have an individual user interface (you see the pollers' activity on the SaaS platform's user interface).
```

* Pollers are part of your infrastructure, which means better security, latency and bandwidth.
* You [install your pollers](../installation/deploy-poller.md) using a simple script.
* The communication between the central and the pollers uses HTTPS.

## Centreon CIAM

> * The [CIAM](../ciam/ciam.md) has a user interface that is separate from the SaaS platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [CIAM](../ciam/ciam.md) has a user interface that is separate from the SaaS platform's.
```
